The President: Hi everybody.
One of the remarkable things
about America is that nearly
all of our families
originally came from
someplace else.
We're a nation
of immigrants.
It's a source of our
strength and something we
all can take pride in.
And this month - Immigrant
Heritage Month - is a chance
to share our
American stories.
I think about my
grandparents in Kansas -
where they met and
where my mom was born.
Their family tree reached
back to England and Ireland
and elsewhere.
They lived, and raised me,
by basic values: working
hard, giving back, and
treating others the way you
want to be treated.
I think of growing up in
Hawaii, a place enriched by
people of different
backgrounds - native
Hawaiian, Filipino,
Japanese, Chinese,
Portuguese and just
about everything else.
Growing up in that vibrant
mix helped shape who I am today.
And while my father was not
an immigrant himself, my own
life journey as an
African-American - and the
heritage shared by Michelle
and our daughters, some of
whose ancestors came here in
chains - has made our family
who we are.
This month, I'm inviting you
to share your story, too.
Just visit
whitehouse.gov/NewAmericans.
We want to hear how you
or your family made it to
America - whether you're an
immigrant yourself or your
great-great-grandparents
were.
Of course, we can't just
celebrate this heritage, we
have to defend it -
by fixing our broken
immigration system.
Nearly two years ago,
Democrats and Republicans in
the Senate came
together to do that.
They passed a commonsense
bill to secure our border,
get rid of backlogs, and
give undocumented immigrants
who are already living here
a pathway to citizenship if
they paid a fine, paid their
taxes, and went to the back
of the line.
But for nearly two years,
Republican leaders in the
House have refused to
even allow a vote on it.
That's why, in the meantime,
I'm going to keep doing
everything I can to make our
immigration system more just
and more fair.
Last fall, I took action to
provide more resources for
border security; focus
enforcement on the real
threats to our security;
modernize the legal
immigration system for
workers, employers, and
students; and bring more
undocumented immigrants out
of the shadows so they can
get right with the law.
Some folks are still
fighting against these actions.
I'm going to keep
fighting for them.
Because the law
is on our side.
It's the right thing to do.
And it will make
America stronger.
I want us to remember people
like Ann Dermody from
Alexandria, Virginia.
She's originally from
Ireland and has lived in
America legally for years.
She worked hard, played by
the rules and dreamed of
becoming a citizen.
In March, her
dream came true.
And before taking the oath,
she wrote me a letter.
"The papers we
receive...will not change
our different accents [or]
skin tones," Ann said.
"But for that day, at least,
we'll feel like we have arrived."
Well, to Ann and immigrants
like her who have come to
our shores seeking a better
life - yes, you have arrived.
And by sharing our stories,
and staying true to our
heritage as a nation of
immigrants, we can keep that
dream alive for
generations to come.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.